Inventory also plays a significant role
in a supply chain's ability
to support a competitive strategy.
If a business requires a very high level of responsiveness,
the company can use inventory to achieve this responsiveness
by locating large stocks of inventory close to the customer.
In a pull or just-in-time environment,
suppliers may elect to locate inventories
within a customer's stock room with scheduled shipments
on an hourly or minute-by-minute basis.
An extreme case
is a supplier co-locating their specialized manufacturing
within the factory of their customer,
providing instant responsiveness to the customer's demand.
Conversely, a customer can also use inventory
to become more efficient by decreasing inventory
through centralized stocking.
The trade off is efficiency versus responsiveness.
A supply chain manager must make routine decisions
to create a more responsive and more efficient supply chain.
These decisions typically focus on decreasing procurement,
repair or deliver recycle inventory, safety inventory,
and seasonal inventory.